Add VE use case docs (#8933)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/modeling/domain-model/entities/view-entities/decoupling-apis.md

---
title: "Decoupling APIs"
url: /refguide/decoupling-apis/

---

## Introduction

> Exposing view entities instead of the underlying persistable entity takes away the complexity of the underlying schema. This helps you prevent frequent API changes in the event of data model changes. It also allows you to consolidate data from multiple tabs in a single API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exposing view entities instead of the underlying persistable entity takes away the complexity of the underlying schema. This helps you prevent frequent API changes in case the data model changes. It also allows you to consolidate data from multiple tabs in a single API.
```

Reviewer 2: This isn't the correct use of "in case". Better to change it to "if the data model changes".
https://englishstudypage.com/grammar/in-case-vs-if-in-english/

> For this purpose of this use case, the following domain model is used:

Reviewer: Should this go in the section below where we have the use case described?

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/decoupling-apis/domain-model.png" >}}

## Creating a View Entity

> In this scenario, you want to make an API call that returns *Products*, and allows you to filter the results by Category. To do this, create a single view entity and expose it as an OData resource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you want to make an API call that returns **Products**, and allows you to filter the results by **Category**. To do this, create a single view entity and expose it as an OData resource. 
```

1. Open your domain model and create a view entity called *ProductCategoryVE*.

> 2. Add the following query to the OQL editor:

Reviewer: The code below should be probably indented differently.

```
SELECT
  p.ProductId as ProductId
  , p.ProductName as ProductName
  , p.QuantityPerUnit as QuantityPerUnit
  , p.Discontinued as Discontinued
  , c.CategoryName as Category
  , c.CategoryId as CategoryId
FROM Shop.Product as p
  JOIN p/Shop.Product_Category/Shop.Category as c
```

1. Right-click this entity and select **Publish in OData service**. Name this service *POS_ProductCategory*.
2. Add `ProductId` as a key attribute, then click **OK**.

> {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/decoupling-apis/key-attribute.png" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/decoupling-apis/key-attribute.png" >}}
```

> 5. In the Entity field, double-click the **ProductId** attribute. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the **Entity** field, double-click the **ProductId** attribute. 
```

6. Uncheck the box **Can be empty**, then click **OK**. 
   

> {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/decoupling-apis/can-be-empty.png" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/modeling/domain-model/view-entities/decoupling-apis/can-be-empty.png" >}}
```
